user guide: running vitess in production (#664)
vitessio/website: content/en/docs/user-guides/configuration-basic/vtgate.md

---
title: vtgate
weight: 11
---

> VTGates are the primary interface to the application. They do not have any persistent state. You can bring up as many vtgates as necessary. An application can connect to any vtgate to get access to all the servers within a cell. We recommend configuring a load balancer to distribute traffic between them. A typical thumb rule would be to bring up as many vtgates as there are vttablets.

Reviewer: Grammar suggestion:

A typical rule of thumb would be to bring up as many vtgates as there are vttablets.

> It is better to bring up multiple vtgates within a single machine than trying to run a single instance that tries to use all the resources. This approach enables better amortization of Go’s garbage collector.

Reviewer: Grammar suggestion:

It is better to bring up multiple vtgates within a single machine rather than

Here are the contents of an example file that shows the ability to specify mysql native passwords as well as plain text:

```json
{
  "mysql_user": [
    {
      "MysqlNativePassword": "*9E128DA0C64A6FCCCDCFBDD0FC0A2C967C6DB36F",
      "Password": "mysql_password",
      "UserData": "mysql_user"
    }
  ],
  "mysql_user2": [
    { 
      "Password": "mysql_password",
      "UserData": "mysql_user"
    }
  ],
  "mysql_user3": [
    {
      "MysqlNativePassword": "*9E128DA0C64A6FCCCDCFBDD0FC0A2C967C6DB36F",
      "UserData": "mysql_user"
    }
  ]
}
```

For those who wish to use the Java or Go grpc clients to vtgate, you must also configure `grpc_port` and specify the service map as `service_map='grpc-vtgateservice'`. Note that the `VStream` feature is only available via grpc.

You can also set the following flags to control load-balancing for replicas:
* `discovery_high_replication_lag_minimum_serving`: If the replication lag of a vttablet exceeds this value, vtgate will treat it as unhealthy and will not send queries to it. This value is meant to match vttablet’s `unhealthy_threshold` value.

> * `discovery_low_replication_lag`: If a single vttablet lags beyond this value, vtgate will not send it any queries. However, if too many replicas exceed this threshold, then vtgate will send queries to the ones that are the least lagged. A weighted average algorithm is used to exclude the outliers. This value is meant to match vttablet’s `degraded_threshold` value.

Reviewer: Grammar suggestion:

send queries to the ones that have the least lag.

> A vtgate that comes up successfully will show all the vttablets it has discovered in its `/debug/statu`s page under the` Health Check Cache` section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A vtgate that comes up successfully will show all the vttablets it has discovered in its `/debug/status` page under the `Health Check Cache` section.
```

![vtgate-healthy-tablets](../img/vtgate-healthy-tablets.png)

> If vtgates cannot connect one of the vttablets it discovered from the topo, or if the vttablet is unhealthy, it will be shown in red in the `Health Check Cache`, and a corresponding error message will be displayed next to it:

Reviewer: Grammar suggestion:

If vtgates cannot connect to one of the vttablets it discovered from the topo,
